>>I was talking on the phone.
The lightening came down
the phone, entered my neck.
It went through my spine.
Threw me up in the air.
And there was this
slight buzzing at the ear
and I felt myself
pop out of the body.
Then I felt myself
float up to the ceiling.
And the doctor and the
nurse were in there,
and he was looking at
me, say, "She's gone.
She's dead."
>>And I was taken to hospital.
Doctors did anything
they could to help me,
but I was declared dead.
>>I realized I
was out of my body
when I was suddenly
looking at the slide.
>>Out of that light stepped
a most amazing being
I have ever been
in the presence of.
>>It was just total
selflessness, understanding,
kindness, all consuming love.
Wonderful love!
>>After a time in this
light, all of these people
have to pay a return trip back.
What they tell us is that the
reason they chose to come back
was not for themselves,
because for themselves
they would rather have stayed
with this presence of love.
When they do return,
incidentally, then the story
becomes very interesting
from the point
of view of human
psychology, because we
find that these patients
are profoundly changed.
That they are imbued with a
totally new value structure.
That whatever in
their lives before,
they had been chasing, whether
it was money or power or fame
or any of these other
things that people seek,
they say that after
this experience,
their value primarily
is to love others,
to seek loving relationships
with their fellow human being.
And also they tell
us that they have
no more fear of
death whatsoever.
[PHONE RINGING]
>>The phone just went off.
>>Hello?
Oh, hey mom.
How are you?
Oh no, what's a matter?
What-- what's happened to him?
Oh no.
I was shocked when I
got that phone call,
one that nobody ever wants or
ever really expects to get.
There's just so many feelings
that I really want to share.
I just wanted to be there.
OK.
Well, we'll see you soon.
Mom, I love you.
My dad was fighting for
every breath of life,
and it didn't look very hopeful.
Even though we lived
600 miles apart,
and only saw each other
on holidays, at least
we were on the same planet.
And we could pick up
the phone and say hello.
The likelihood of
losing all that
seemed almost
impossible to grasp.
"Dear dad.
I'm so sorry to hear about
what you're going through.
I know you're rugged, but
you gave us a good scare."
"Dear dad.
I'm writing you this
letter because I
don't know if I'll
ever see you again,
yet I have so much
I want to say.
Dad, do you remember
several years
ago when I was still grieving
over the death of Suzanne?
I found a great deal of
comfort in some books
I was reading about dying."
"It was at that time that I
met a doctor of psychiatry,
a researcher named
Dr. Raymond Moody.
I'm sending a copy
of a book that he
wrote, which was a great
deal of help to me then."
"Dr. Moody has
observed a pattern
that occurs in people
the world over,
regardless of their
culture or religion."
>>As a matter of fact, the
prior religious beliefs
or background of
the person doesn't
seem to have much to
do with whether or not
they have an
experience, and even
the content of the experience.
We've even had people who say
that prior to their experience
they were atheists
or agnostics who
have very beautiful and
full-blown near death
experiences.
>>Really.
And do they remain
atheists and agnostics?
>>Not at all.
Once they come
back, they tell us
that they're totally transformed
and they have no more doubt,
whatsoever that there
is a God and there
is a life after death.
>>"It's about his research
on the stories of people
who have approached
death, many of whom
actually had the
experience of dying
and then were revived and
lived to tell about it."
>>What happened is I felt like
I had been hit by a train.
But what had happened was
I was talking on the phone,
holding the telephone like this.
The lightening came down
the phone, entered my neck.
It went through my spine,
threw me up in the air.
As it threw me in the air,
it knocked me out of my shoes
and welded the nails in the
heels of my shoes to the nails
in the floor, which is how I was
grounded and I didn't explode.
>>Before I shot
myself I measured,
like we did in CPR, to
find where the heart was.
And that's where I
just took the barrel
and put it up against my
chest and pulled the trigger.
>>I had responded to treatment.
I was getting worse, and
the doctor had come to see.
And at this point, he
says I've lost her.
She's gone.
And I thought, well
who's he talking about?
Just before this, I had
been in terrible pain.
I was just hurting so bad.
I wanted to get away from it.
>>15 minutes before I was
to be picked up by a jeep,
I was discovered to have a
temperature of 106 and a half.
And instead of
waiting for the jeep,
the captain in charge of the
ward send me over to X-ray.
And the last thing I remember
was the captain in charge
of X-ray asked me if I
thought I could sit up
long enough for them to
get a picture of my chest.
And I remember hearing
that X-ray making
that peculiar whirring
sound, and then a click.
And I'm told that I
collapsed in a heap.
>>This wasn't a typical
bee sting because I quickly
realized that there
was a problem.
And I tried to telephone
someone for help.
The rest of the ranger station
was about three miles in,
and I tried to telephone
my boss to send some help.
And I fell and went unconscious.
Luckily, from what
I understand, he
drove through, a bus drove
through a little while
later and noticed that-- I would
normally just wave to him as he
came by, and I was
lying down on the floor,
and he called the ambulance.
>>I was a dissident
in Soviet Union.
And I had an invitation
from United States.
In 1975 I received
this invitation.
In 1976 I was given
the exit visa,
and I was leaving for
New York that day.
And I was coming to
take my passport,
and I was ready to fly.
My family was already in
airport waiting for me.
The time on sidewalk, I was
moved over or ran over by car.
It was fabricated by KGB.
They wanted to kill me,
and not to let me go.
And I was taken to hospital.
Doctors did anything
they could to help me,
but I was declared dead.
>>Pretty much all over the world
we found this common pattern.
They tell us that at this
point where their doctor says
they are dead, that
they may actually
hear the physician
say, oh my, he's dead,
or we've lost her or
something like that.
And they say that from
their perspective, actually,
they still feel very much alive.
Indeed their consciousness
is heightened.
>>Wow.
>>And they tell
us that they seem
to leave their physical bodies.
They say that they
float up, typically
right above the bed
in the operating
room, or the emergency
room, and they look down
and they can see their
own physical bodies
lying on the bed down below.
>>I was above my body.
I was floating.
And there were people
around me, except I
didn't realize that that
person there was me.
>>Then all of a sudden I heard
this statement, he's gone.
He's gone.
And it was the paramedic making
that statement to the driver.
At that point I was standing
behind the paramedic.
I was watching him
work on my body.
>>And suddenly there was
commotion beneath me,
and then I started noticing all
of the people underneath me.
And the EMS workers were pushing
the stretcher down the hall.
And I really wasn't
concerned with my body.
I was more concerned with there
were a couple of plainclothes
policemen over
where the guns were,
and they were-- one of them
was wrong about something
and I was trying to tell
him that he was wrong.
>>I could see the soldiers and
the nurses and the doctors,
but they could not see me.
And I went from
ward to ward, bed
to bed trying to find a
soldier that I thought
that looked like me
lying in the bed.
Was becoming more and more
desperate because, as I say,
I could see these human
beings, but I could not
communicate with them.
I finally went into this
little isolated ward room.
And sure enough, lying in the
bed with a sheet pulled up
over the head was
this body that I
had to recognize
as me because it
had my fraternity
ring on its finger.
>>And there was this
slight buzzing at the ear,
and at felt myself
pop out of the body.
I was-- I don't
know how I came out.
I was just suddenly
out of the body.
And I sat down on the
head of the bed a minute
to look around.
Then I felt myself
float up to the ceiling
and I was looking down.
And he said, she's gone.
And I couldn't believe it.
And I thought well, who's gone?
And I was trying to
look down to see.
And I felt presences
with me, guardian angels
is what they were, but
I called them guides.
>>I was suddenly looking
at the slide that
seemed to be in the
corner of the room.
But the first thing I thought
was where did you come from?
And she said, I've
always been here,
but you weren't able
to see me before.
She emanated feelings
of selflessness, love,
all consuming love,
understanding, kindness.
She took on all the pain
and all the suffering
with total understanding of what
had brought me to that point.
And it was like we
were intertwined.
And that everything that
I felt, she felt too.
Because she understood the
motivation behind what I did.
>>After a while
in this, they say
that they begin to feel an
indescribable feeling of bliss.
That it's something
that transcends words,
that we can't put
it into the language
that we have in everyday life.
One man, for instance,
told me that,
although he was in
great pain in his chest
prior to leaving his body,
as soon as he left his body,
that he was overcome with
a tremendous sense of joy
and peace.
A kind of ecstasy.
>>There was absolute freedom
of your soul and body.
And this amazed me.
And this was very
interesting, too.
I was happy to be
in such experience
because I could
see their thoughts.
I could see everything
what was happening.
I could smell!
I could hear, and I
could see their thoughts.
This was the main
thing what was very,
very making me happy and proud.
I don't know this word is
good to use here or not,
but a proud of that I
can see their thoughts.
>>But I can remember that it
felt very exciting to be above,
and to be out and looking down,
and not threatening at all.
>>Then I knew I was supposed
to be keeping up with my body,
so I followed my
body through the hall
and out the front door.
And there's
something about being
outside when you're
out of your body.
But when I got outside I
just-- it was just wonderful.
But it seemed like I
was always just kind
of looking through the
ambulance because I
was enjoying being outside.
Just really kind of
a nice experience
with the lights and everything,
and the feeling of lightness.
>>As I have come
out, I'm in no pain,
but I'm also just
free of everything.
I'm no one's wife,
mother or daughter.
I'm just myself alone.
>>I have the distinct memory of
always trying to look at myself
and thinking how
much better looking
I thought I was than that,
because this guy was ugly,
he was in trouble, and
he had these blue lines
all down his face.
And I was happy, truly happy
to be away from that body.
They could have it.
And I did not feel one
bit of remorse or sadness,
no matter what had happened.
>>But it was not bothering me.
I saw my body and I hated it.
And I didn't want
to come to my back.
>>It looked like this sort
of a feeble sick person.
And it didn't dawn
on me until it
seemed like many minutes later--
I'm sure it was a flash--
that that person was me.
And that they were trying to
revive me because I was dying.
And, in fact, my
heart had stopped.
>>There's a skeptical
part of me, too.
And I wonder sometimes
whether or not
this might just be people's
hallucinations that they're
going through, or just
a natural shutting down
process when the brain is dying.
>>Um-hmm.
I used to wonder about
that myself, Peter.
What has turned me around on
that issue is that so often
these patients are
able to give us
very correct descriptions
of what was going on
during the resuscitation
from a point of view
they couldn't have had
from that perspective
of that physical body
lying on the table.
For instance, my friend Kim, who
works in a medical University
out West, was
telling me that she
was involved in resuscitating
a young patient named Maria.
And Maria had been
believed dead,
but was successfully revived.
And when she came
back to consciousness,
my friend Kim happened to be
standing there by her bedside.
And Maria grabbed
onto Kim and said,
during the resuscitation
when she was out of her body,
she drifted outside
of the hospital
entirely and saw an
old shoe on a ledge
on a window outside an
upper floor at the hospital.
And Kim was actually
able to go there
and to verify that
the shoe was there
exactly as the
patient had specified.
>>Really.
>>And all of a sudden I'm aware
of people out in the hall.
The room had been
sealed off because he
was going to do
surgery in the room.
So I immediately went
out through the door--
did not open it, just went out.
I was immediately on the other
side of them in the hall.
But I go up to my daughter
and I try to make her hear me,
"Cassie, go home and
change your clothes."
I couldn't make her hear
me, so I went to her dad,
and I said, "Judd,
take Cassie home.
Change her clothes.
She shouldn't be out like this."
While they were
in the hall, when
I was trying to send them
home, a brother of my husband's
came up and he
was talking to him
and he had gotten word to come.
And one of his neighbors
was also in the hospital,
and he came up and started
talking to my brother,
[? Neil, ?] wanting to know what
he was doing at the hospital,
and what he was going
to do that weekend.
He said, "Well, it looks
like my sister-in-law is
going to kick the bucket, and
I was planning to go to Athens,
but I'll stick around
now to be a pallbearer."
Later, I was also
able to talk to him.
He didn't want to
admit it, but he
did admit this is
what he had said.
And I laughed at him
because it embarrassed him.
>>It was amazing that I was
never leaving my body, too.
I was everywhere who
thought about me.
But I was with my body.
It means that I was not
leaving one part for another.
I was everywhere the same time.
I could be in New York, I
could be in Longview, Texas.
I could be in Moscow, I
could be in Tbilisi, Georgia.
In any place.
There was no distance and
time at that time with me.
>>And this time I'm thinking
I want to see my sister.
So I immediately find myself
in Rockville, Maryland
at her home, and she's getting
ready to go grocery shopping.
She's wearing a beige
suit with a green blouse.
She's had to go over the
house and look for her keys
that she had misplaced.
Had to find her grocery list.
And finally she walks
out her front door
to get in her blue
Monte Carlo Chevrolet.
And I feel there's no need for
me to go to the grocery store
with her, so I let her go on.
And I'm going to pop over
then to another sister who
lives a few miles away from her.
And this other sister
had already left home.
I was able to determine she had
gone grocery shopping herself.
So the guides asked me was
I ready to leave this area,
and I agreed and said yes.
About two weeks after I had
this near death experience,
I was in contact with my sisters
and I brought this fact up
to her and described.
And she said, "Well,
how did you know?
I didn't see you.
You weren't here."
>>I could communicate
with the children,
with very little children
who couldn't speak
and who couldn't walk
and who were very little.
And just coming from that
place where I was going.
And this was amazing
communication
with them, a spiritual
communication.
We never spoken in the words.
We spoke in a mental
communication.
And she had broken
hip, and nobody
understood why she
was crying so loud.
And the doctors
and these parents
were very concerned about this.
And I said, "Don't cry anyway.
Nobody will understand
why do you cry."
And she stopped
crying and she smiled.
And it was incredible experience
for the people who were around,
and they looked at her and
said, "What's happened?
Why she's not crying
at this time?"
I want to tell them that
she has this di-- This
happened with her.
But I couldn't
communicate with them.
At the third day when I was back
to my body and after three days
when I could speak, I said
them that your daughter
is crying because of this.
She has a broken hip.
And this is the diagnosis
which you are seeking.
And they found
that it was truth.
They were shocked and
they were surprised.
>>I've also wondered whether
or not people may not just
be going to places that they've
known before in their memory.
>>Well, they certainly do that.
They do go to places
where they have them,
but they also fairly
frequently end up in places
where they didn't know
existed on the way.
And in one case,
Dr. George Ritchie,
he was actually
able to find a place
that he had seen in his
out of body experience.
>>I had left that room.
Went as far as
Vicksburg, Mississippi.
Saw a man getting ready to go
into a white all night cafe
there on DeCarlo
Street in Vicksburg,
and asked him if
he could tell me
if I was going in the right
direction to get to Richmond.
And this man acted the
same way that a ward boy
had in the corridor I past as I
was going out of the hospital,
like he could neither
see me nor hear me.
Actually, I walked right
through ward boy going out.
But I was so
determined to get back
to Richmond, that
never even stopped me.
And when this guy
couldn't see me then
I realized that there
was a vast change.
Something was wrong that these
people couldn't neither see
nor hear me.
The way that I know that it
was Vicksburg, Mississippi
because 10 months
after this experience
I came back through
Vicksburg and recognized
the white all night
cafe on the corner.
Time and distance, as you and
I comprehend it in this room
simply does not
exist, because simply
by wanting to be heading back
towards Richmond, apparently
I was.
>>Before I tell you about
the most adventurous kind
of out of body traveling,
I want you to promise me
that you'll come to visit me and
say goodbye before you actually
leave this world.
There are occasional
reports from people
who experienced another
dramatic form of traveling.
That they actually leave their
body, zoom up above the Earth,
and travel far into space
and see the Earth down below.
Dr. Carl Jung, the great
Swiss psychiatrist,
was an example of
this phenomenon when
he had his near death experience
in 1944, and a heart attack.
>>At the beginning of
1944, I broke my foot,
and this misadventure was
followed by a heart attack.
Extremely strange things
began to happen to me.
It seemed to me that I
was high up in space.
Far below, I saw the
globe of the Earth, bathed
in a gloriously blue light.
I saw the deep blue
sea and the continents.
I could see the
snow-covered Himalayas.
I knew that I was at the point
of departing from the Earth.
The sight of the
Earth from this height
was the most glorious
thing I had ever seen.
>>After a while
in this situation,
though, they come to
realize that although they
can see and understand
perfectly what's happening,
no one else is able
to see or hear them.
So they seem to undergo
a state of turning inward
of the sense of identity,
if I could call it that.
They become aware that this
phenomenon they're experiencing
has something to do
with what we call death.
And it's at that point that
the more transcendental parts
of the near death
experience tend to unfold.
>>I have this pain
and I am in darkness.
I cannot see anything.
Then I cannot move hand.
Then I cannot move my body.
And then I understood that
I have nothing, but I am.
And it scared me.
Fear.
Unknown.
Why are all people
afraid of darkness?
Because they don't know
what is in darkness.
The fear of darkness
is because of unknown.
And understandable makes you
to be afraid of something.
That's why I was afraid too.
I was afraid of this darkness.
I was afraid of being there.
But more afraid was that I
was somewhere without my body.
But I was.
And I was a scientist, you know.
I worked on idea of
psychology and languages.
I learned the physics,
I learned chemistry,
I learned many
other physiologies.
Anatomy.
And all it was based on
dialectical materialism.
Historical materialism.
And in my idea it was
impossible to be somewhere
without your body.
Where is my main component?
My life?
My body?
I was scared to death.
But I was already dead.
And that was the amazing feeling
to understand that you are,
but you are not.
If you think, you are.
If I think, I thought, I am.
But if I am, and if I think,
why cannot I think positively
what's happening around me?
And I began to
think about light.
I saw light outside of
darkness, and it shocked me.
The first feeling which I had
was to come to that light.
The first thought which came to
me was to go into this light.
And I had that movement.
>>They describe to
us how they seem
to be drawn into an
enclosure of some sort.
They often call it a tunnel.
And they go through this
tunnel quite rapidly
and they come out
on the other side
into an incredibly brilliant
and warm and loving light.
>>Don't know exactly how
I entered the tunnel,
just at what point.
But it was when the guides
had asked me, and I said yes.
And I feel myself going
in an upward motion.
The tunnel is not too big--
just seemed for one person
to go one at a time.
It doesn't touch
you, or I didn't
reach out and touch the walls.
But it's black, and I feel
myself going up and looking
at light, bright light
at the end of the tunnel.
And as I'm going along,
I see the gray area,
but I did not stop to go in
and see just what was going on.
I went on to come out into this
beautiful pasture, valley land,
flowers, bright,
beautiful light.
Brilliant color.
Nothing here is like it at all.
>>The next thing I remember
is I heard a set of chimes.
And as I looked at an angle,
probably 35 or 40 degrees,
I could see a tunnel.
The tunnel was like
a spiral, like it
was moving whether
I was moving or not.
Then I began to whisk down it,
and I could hear these chimes.
But I was in utter peace,
in utter tranquility.
And it was such a stark,
dramatic difference
between the way that
body was and what
was happening to that
body and this place I was,
this utter peace.
As I moved closer
to the light, I
was kept being surrounded
and filled with this love.
This love of like--
I can't describe it,
except when you haven't seen
your parents in a long time.
If you've been away
from your family,
and when you first see
your mom and your dad,
that feeling when you're a small
kid, that feeling that you get.
I knew I was safe.
I knew everything was peaceful.
And I knew it was right.
As I came into the tunnel,
came through the tunnel,
I came into a place much like
walking out of a dark room
into a bright
room, as if my eyes
were trying to adjust
to this brilliant light.
The contrast between
the brilliant light
of the lightning bolt and
the brilliant light that
was in the tunnel was another
thing that was quite dramatic.
Because this light was so
brilliant and so bright,
it passed through
me, it permeated me.
It and I became one.
>>For years now, we've
been using the expression
of seeing the light at
the end of the tunnel.
And I wonder whether it
was started, perhaps,
by people who had near death
experiences many years ago.
In fact, I've been
showing some paintings
of just this scene that were
done several hundred years ago.
>>In the 15th century,
the Dutch painter,
Hieronymus Bosch even painted
this theme in his painting
"A Scent of the Blessed."
In the foreground in the
bottom of the painting
we see people who are
dying, and as they are dying
they're surrounded by
spiritual beings who
attempt to turn their
attention upwards.
Above them there's
a tunnel, which
goes off into the distance.
And at the end of the tunnel
is a very bright light.
As these people go
through the tunnel,
they kneel reverently
into the light.
So we know then that
these experiences
have existed among human
beings from time immemorial.
>>In this light,
they often tell us
that they see relatives
or friends of theirs who
have already died, who seem
to be there to meet them,
and to greet them, and to help
them through this transition.
>>A particularly very great
thing happened with me.
It was that I saw my
parents, my real parents.
And I understood that
they were killed.
And they were killed
by KGB in Moscow,
and I was happy of this.
It sounds very
ridiculous, but you know,
I was happy because
I was thought
that I was abandoned by them.
>>And I'd lost a girlfriend in
the polio epidemic in the '30s.
I think it was '38, but I'm
not positive of that date.
And she assured me that
everything was fine
and she was happy.
And I also saw my grandparents
coming to meet me.
I never known my grandfathers.
They had both passed
away before I was born.
But I did know my grandmothers,
and my mother also.
And [INAUDIBLE], this
baby appears to me.
And he says, "Hi,
I'm your brother."
And I said, "I don't
have a brother."
And we don't talk as
I'm talking to you.
There was no way of
misunderstanding.
It was more like it
was mental telepathy.
And he shows himself to
me as a small infant,
dressed in a cap
and a long dress
with the knitted [? sack ?]
with booties and socks.
And tells me to look me
over now and remember
how I looked this way.
And you can tell our
father when you get back
and he'll tell you it happened.
And when I was able
to talk to him,
my dad's, "Well,
I don't know how
you know that because nobody
but your mother, doctor and I
knew about these things.
>>"So it gives me hope to
know that whatever happens,
we'll be seeing each
other again one day,
as we're greeted by those loved
ones, family and friends who
have already died.
All these greeters
seem to be encouraging
us to come into the
presence of that light,
and are letting us know that
everything is going to be OK."
>>The being of light
that these patients often
describe encountering is
plainly a personal being.
They say that they
are in the presence
of a being of complete love,
who accepts them and loves them
totally.
And who has a
wonderful personality,
is very knowledgeable about
them, very wise, very helpful.
Also, has a wonderful
sense of humor.
>>This is the most
wonderful part of it.
This is a warm, loving light.
It's the most
masculine, but it also
has overtones of mother
love, sisterly love.
This just pulsates around.
He has totally accepted
me, and forgiven me
for everything I've ever
done, but can I forgive myself
for some of these selfish
things I have done.
>>And there was this
unconditional love,
like most parents have
for their children.
That no matter how
bad I might have been
or-- that I was totally
loved, and totally understood,
and just wonderful love!
>>I'm sitting there
wondering what
to do next, when suddenly that
room became flooded with light.
And then three things happened
simultaneously just like that.
Something deep inside of
the spiritual being sitting
on the side of the bed looking
at the corpse lying in the bed,
was told to stand up in the
presence of the Son of God.
Out of that light stepped
a most amazing being
I have ever been
in the presence of.
The most powerfully built
male I have ever seen.
>>To my right I saw a
being coming toward me.
In those days, I had never
heard of the death experience,
so I haven't had
it described to me,
so I had no idea
how to relate to it.
Since then I've heard
people describe it
as God and Jesus
or Moses or lots
of different names,
a great Angel.
I believe that this being
of light was my higher self.
The greater part of me
looking at the part of me
that just experienced this life.
I was so comfortable
with this being
and so assured that
only if someone
knew themselves and knew the
Love of God in them, then
they could have that same
relationship with themselves.
And it was as if this being
had come to be with me.
>>And now once being in
the presence of a being who
knows everything about you, to
know that he totally accepts
you and totally
loves you, I never
wanted to leave this being
again under any circumstance.
>>Now, this is one of the
most interesting parts
of the near death
experience to me.
These patients will tell us
that in the closing moments
of their life, often in the
presence of this being of love
who is with them, that they see
a panorama before them, which
consists of every single
thing that they've ever
done in their lives, from
the moment of their birth,
right through the time of
their close call with death.
And they say that they
see it all simultaneously,
not with the events
in temporal sequence,
but rather all display
there at once in a way
that they find very
difficult to describe.
>>As those hospital walls
virtually disappeared
and I saw every minute
detail of my life,
seen my own cesarean
section birth,
through the 20 years
that I had lived
because I was on 20 at the time.
>>With the light, there is
this panoramic view of my life.
It starts with
birth, it continues
right on to where we
are at this point.
All at the same time,
I am part of the view.
As well as watching it, I am
actually viewing these things.
I guess it's a speeded up
version of a camera that
just runs double
time or something.
But I actually had
the feelings of what
was going on as I saw it.
And also standing
off to the side
and being able to
look around and look
at the different things that
went on at different times
in my life.
>>I saw all my life, but it's in
that dimension which cannot be
described.
This was holographical view
of being inside of your life,
and then being as a viewer,
participating the play
of theatre which
happening there.
But it is you, and you
know that you are this.
>>At Disneyworld they
had this Kodak ride
where you sit in
this seat and you
go-- there's this movie
that surrounds you.
And it makes you feel like
you're a part of the action.
And you can even
get butterflies when
there's a big drop or something.
So it was around me
in a form to where
it was like I was participating.
But it was participating
in the mind or in thought.
But it just seemed
like a lifetime
of pain happened in just
a short period of time.
>>I had a panoramic
view of my life.
Every feeling, every thought,
every action, every deed
all at the same time.
The same time.
And as it started
happening, I began
to see how I affected
the person that I
had the encounter with
or the experience,
whether it be me personally,
or whether it be someone else.
And then how they were affected.
How it was one step removed from
us and how they were affected.
And believe me, there is
nothing hidden in your life.
>>If you imagine this
panorama of your life
as like a still pond, and
each action in your life
is like a pebble which
you flip into that pond.
At the point where that
pebble impacts on the surface,
you see ripples going out.
But he said that as these
ripples in this panorama
impinge on others, then you can
see the secondary effects going
off from those people
in the form of ripples.
>>I see.
>>So I think it
illustrates how tied in we
all are to one
another in this life.
How profoundly our actions and
our feelings affect others.
And, of course, in this life
review we're made aware of that
in a very profound way.
And people say, too, that it's
not the events in your life
that you would necessarily
expect which get reviewed.
It's not the big
accomplishments, but rather
the simple acts of kindness.
Often things that you
would even have forgotten.
>>You will see the
things that you did out
of your heart--
helping an old woman,
picking a kid up,
helping someone.
An action that you take
uncalculated, unthought,
just out of goodness
of your heart.
These things herald
through the universe.
Not your great accomplishments,
not what you achieve
or what you think has value.
The little things have value.
>>And what I'd always thought
was important and nice things I
had done, they didn't
even count for anything.
It's the little unknown things
that you do for one another.
And love there is always helping
to give others love and helping
hand along the way,
and at the same time
you're benefiting, because
you're receiving also.
>>And the question
was "What have
you done with your
life to show me?"
Well, I'm looking around
this panoramic view
and I'm hoping that you'll
notice some good things,
and of course I'm trying
to pick the best thing
and he won't see some rather
embarrassing things that
happened to me as a teenager.
And I thought well,
I was an Eagle Scout.
Immediately came back,
that glorified you.
Again, asked a second time.
"What have you done
with your life?"
This time the emphasis
was on to show me.
But I understood
what he was saying.
He was asking me had I learned
to love my fellow human beings
the way that he totally
accepted and loved me.
>>And when you look
at it, you look at it
from a place to review, and to
be critical of yourself, not
to be judged to be condemned.
There was no condemnation in it.
There was none.
There was nothing but,
hey, look at yourself.
Look who you really are.
And look what you've
done, and then
give it a value in
the Eyes of God.
The death experience gives you
a value of what that love is.
That you are so deeply
loved, and that you,
yourself, so deeply love.
You begin to sense a part of
yourself greater and far more
magnificent than you ever
give yourself credit for.
>>Frequently, too,
people tell us
that this being is also
interested in the knowledge
that they've acquired
in this life.
If there is a scene in which
one is seeking knowledge
by taking a course or attempting
to understand something,
that this being comments in an
almost offhanded sort of way.
That even after we die, the
process of learning goes on.
And that what we
learn here we can
take with us to the next realm.
People say that love, primarily.
And then in a secondary,
almost grace note sort of way,
that it seems to be the
knowledge and the understanding
we've acquired.
>>I know what you're saying.
>>After a time in this
light, all of these people
have to pay a return trip back.
And it's very
interesting that when
they do, after having been
in the presence of this being
of love and light for
a while, they literally
don't want to come back.
They resist the attempts very
often made to send them back.
>>I never wanted to come back.
I wouldn't have traded, and
I would not trade today.
For the few moments that I got
to spend on the other side,
I wouldn't trade
20 of these lives.
And when I had to
come back, I came back
dragging, kicking
and scratching,
because I didn't want to.
>>And I'm told then are
you ready to go back?
No, I want to go on
to the city of light.
No, don't you want to go back?
And I could hear my daughter
and look back and see her
and my husband, they
were saying Vi, don't go.
Come back to us.
Momma, I need you.
Mom, come back.
And they asked me again,
are you ready to go?
I said no, but it seems
that my daughter needs me,
so I must go back.
>>I really had no
reason to go back,
except that I can
remember my mother.
And I know that I put
her through a lot.
I was a very accident prone kid.
And she used to say, if
you ever die before I do,
I'll never forgive you.
My mother was so adamant about
me not dying before she did.
And I think that's what
first came into my mind.
>>We are alive because
of love, and this
was what brought me back,
which, to be honest,
I didn't want to come back.
But this love brought me back.
Love of people who
wanted me back.
>>Other times they say that
they're given a choice.
That they're told
that they can either
go on with the experience that
they're having then or else
they can return to the life
they have been leading.
>>You could stay here
or you can go back.
If you stay you're going to
have to go through everything
that brought you to this point.
And at the same time,
I was seeing the things
that had bought me to that
point, the things in my life
that were painful.
There were other things,
but somehow the things
that had been painful
were the things
that made the biggest impact.
And I knew that I didn't want
to go through that again.
So there was no way
to escape that if you
try to kill yourself
and you succeed, somehow
you're going to have to
go through everything
that was painful in your life.
And then have to
go from the point
where you killed yourself also.
So you're not escaping.
>>And people will say to me,
they say, "Well, Dannion,
what about hell?
I'll say, "Well,
they didn't bring it
and I darn sure didn't, because
maybe they might have checked
and said, 'Hey, Dannion,
you're on this wrong list.
You're supposed to
be somewhere else."
>>They also want
to know about hell.
Is it a fiery, burny place.
Well, what I found to be
hell was separation from God.
This is a total hell.
>>Darkness, where I was first.
This is the same
as somebody told
you, the separation from
light, from love, from God,
from infinity.
Of course this is hell.
That's why suicide was
condemned by all religious.
That's why they are telling
you that you will go to hell.
It means you will go to nowhere,
and nowhere does not exist.
It means you will go somewhere
on opposite than goodness.
>>Very often they're told
it's not your time to die yet.
You've got things
left to accomplish,
so you must go back.
>>This weekend I was in
morgue, and on Monday, I
was taken from morgue, washed,
and they begin autopsy.
It was 11 o'clock in the morning
when they opened my abdomen.
They took hematoma.
And they began this
T kind autopsy.
And some great power took me
with neck, I think-- that part,
I can't explain
it-- pushed me down.
And I saw this movement down,
and then I felt my headache
and I opened eyes.
And this was coming
back to my body.
>>The next thing
that I knew, I was
floating over my body
in the emergency room
and they were working on me.
Then they stopped working on me.
They put a sheet over me.
They filled out a piece of paper
and they rolled me in a room.
And I was lying in
that room, and I
was hovering above
myself watching myself.
Then I heard what would appear
to be an elevator door opened,
and these two guys
came in and they
were getting ready
to take me someplace.
I later found out that that
was probably the morgue.
Then at that exact moment
I was inside a body again.
It was on fire.
It was in pain.
I could not move.
So I started blowing the sheet.
[BLOW] And they
jerked the sheet off,
pushed me back into the
emergency room, worked on me
and stabilized me.
And in the course over
the next seven days
I was completely paralyzed.
>>It's so touching to
me that in the closing
moments of their life, that
so many people come back
reporting that what was most
important to them at this time
was love.
The question of
how they had loved
their fellow human beings.
>>It had a lot of effects
and change in my life.
It's made me a more
understanding person of others.
I know I don't have the
right to take my life.
I didn't want to return and
I would love to go back.
Some day I will.
And then I hopefully can stay
and not have to come back
and try again.
But I know I cannot take
my life and go there.
Things would not work out right.
But I think I'm a better
person about watching
for the needs of others and
not being always selfish.
Oh, I'm still selfish.
I'm still a human.
But it has changed
my way of thinking.
>>And how to love
other people and how
to forgive, and to put yourself
in the place of other people
in order to understand them.
That's something that you have
to do in order to love people.
And in order to love yourself.
Because if you hold grudges
and you-- it hurts you
and it hurts the other people.
And it's a barrier to
love, if you can't forgive.
You don't necessarily have to
forget when people hurt you,
but you have to understand
them and forgive them.
And I think that that is the
most important thing about love
that I've learned, and how
to look at how we're alike,
rather than how we're different.
>>This is the main message which
I brought back that love is
what cannot be changed.
This is everlasting.
And love is with
life always together.
Love, what keeps
this world alive.
Love as in eternity.
Love as that basic of humankind.
And we are alive
because of love.
>>I think the most important
point about the death
experience is that
it is orderly.
And the fact that small
children, all the way
to grown people have
similar experiences.
And if people could
understand that if they
would pay more attention
to each other, and to care
and have faith and
hope in each other,
we could also begin
to believe and have
faith and hope in the true
nature of the Love of God.
And not God in a
religious value,
but God in a spiritual value.
And through love all
things are truly possible.
>>And also they tell us
that their fear of death
is totally gone after this.
That they have no more
fear of death whatsoever.
>>I saw life as an infinite
life, infinite light.
As an everlasting being.
We cannot die, because we are
already created for to live
forever.
The dimension of spirit
is everlasting life.
>>The third thing that I have
learned is that life is final.
Death is nothing more
or less than a doorway
you suddenly walk through.
>>Death does not exist.
Don't be afraid.
Death is only the part, as
a station, railroad station,
where you come always
to go to another life.
>>"I find it very
comforting and encouraging
to hear from so many people
who have explored life
beyond physical death
that life goes on.
So I know it's true, if
either of us went tomorrow,
we'd be joined again in what
must seem like an instant.
'Back in a flash,'
as you always say."
"But whatever
happens, I want you
to know that I feel very blessed
to have had you as my father
and I love you very much.
With much love, Peter."
>>Know that it'll
be a safe journey.
That you'll be taking
that journey not alone,
but surrounded by love.
A greater love than
you understand.
And when you get to you your
part and place in that journey,
whether it be not to come
back, or to be like a few of us
to return, know that it
symbolized the orderly way
in which God has prepared
life for each of us.
And in that life,
the orderly passing
and movement to another life.
That you do not die.
That the Love of God sees
you through all things,
and that you will be forever,
just in another place.
>>It was about three weeks later
when we got the phone call.
I was told that he died
with a smile on his face.
And the last words he
said were "the light."
[MUSIC PLAYING]